# Chapter 01: Basic three.js building block


## Essential elements
There are some elements that we always need for three.js to run:

#### [`scene`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/scenes/Scene)
It is where you place all your objects, lights, cameras and such. Think of it as a toy box or a dollhouse: a space ready for you to place anything you want.

(TIP: You can have as many scenes as you want, and switch between them later in the code.)


#### [`camera`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/cameras/Camera)
This is how we look at the scenes. We can choose between perspective (most common one, and the one you'll use the most), orthographic and more.

Let's break down the parameters needed to initialize the camera:
```JavaScript
camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, wid/hei, 0.1, 1000);
```
1. **Field of View:** The angle of the camera "lens". It is how much the camera "sees" and what it displays on the scene. The value is in degrees.
2. **Aspect Ratio:** It is almost always the ratio between the width and height of the three.js canvas. Otherwise, the picture looks distorted.
3. **Near:** How near can an object be before being clipped by the camera. Objects closer than this won't be displayed.
4. **Far:** How far can an object be before being clipped by the camera. Objects further than this won't be displayed.


#### [`renderer`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/renderers/WebGLRenderer)
This is the WebGL renderer in charge of displaying the scenes. Has different parameter options, such as size, pixel ratio, etc. We won't go into much detail here, but has great options to get better image quality or to downgrade it if you need it to be less intense.


#### animation loop **(new syntax!)**
For things to be rendered in three.js, it is necessary to set an animation loop that [updates your objects](https://threejs.org/docs/#manual/introduction/How-to-update-things) to animate them and calls the renderer to display the updated frame.

  `renderer.setAnimationLoop( render )` is what tells the renderer which function to call every time it wants to show a new frame. Once this function is called, it does not need to be called again. (On previous versions of three.js, we had to call the `requestAnimationFrame()` function, but this is not needed anymore)

  `renderer.render( scene, camera )` is the part that displays the scene according to the camera's parameters. In case we want to change scenes, this would be where it is reflected.

  ```JavaScript
  // ANIMATION
  function animate() {
    renderer.setAnimationLoop( render );
  }
  function render(){
    updateObjects();
    renderer.render( scene, camera );
  }
  animate();
  ```



## Other useful components
There are also some not-so-essential (global JavaScript code) ones that I always include:

#### `container`
A call to the HTML element that will contain the canvas by using `container.appendChild(renderer.domElement);`. On certain occasions it is useful to have the HTML element in a variable


#### `resize` event listener
In case you have a full sized sketch, you need to update the display area and adjust the camera accordingly whenever the window size is modified (this includes going fullscreen!)

  ```JavaScript
  window.addEventListener('resize', onWindowResize, true );

  function onWindowResize(){
    let wid = window.innerWidth;
    let hei = window.innerHeight;

    renderer.setPixelRatio(window.devicePixelRatio);
    renderer.setSize(wid, hei);
    camera.aspect = wid/hei;
    camera.updateProjectionMatrix();
   }
   ```


#### `init` function
In the same way p5 has the `setup` function, I create a single function to run all the initialization code for three.js. Note that it is not necessary (like the setup function in p5), but it makes everything much more organized. To make this function run after the entire webpage has loaded, add `window.addEventListener('load', init);`
