# Chapter 05 - Interaction: Raycasting

In order to make an interactive experience, we need to be able to capture the user's input, like the mouse (standard for web experiences). For a 2D sketch it is easy to figure out, as the we can always relate the mouse position to the objects on the sketch. However, on a 3D sketch, the third dimension and depth make it very hard to calculate whether the mouse is on top of an object of not. That's where [raycasting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_casting) comes in to help us.

In three.js, we use the [Raycaster object](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/core/Raycaster) takes into account the position of the mouse, the camera position and orientation and traces a line on the scene to returns an array of the objects that were intersected.


## Mouse tracking
The first step is to keep track of the mouse as it moves around the sketch. This information is stored in a two-dimensional vector (position x and y of the mouse). In order to do so, it is necessary to listen to the event `mousemove`, and setup a callback function (in this case, `onMouseMove`).

Finally, the raycaster needs the mouse position as normalized coordinates (ranging from -1 to 1). As the width and height of the sketch are arbitrary, we need to give the function values that relate to the overall position.

```JavaScript
let mouse = new THREE.Vector2();
window.addEventListener('mousemove', onMouseMove, false);

function onMouseMove( event ) {
  // mouse position in normalized coordinates
  mouse.x =  (event.clientX / window.innerWidth) *2 -1;
  mouse.y = -(event.clientY / window.innerHeight)*2 +1;
}
```


## Keeping track of (some of) the objects
When raycasting, we have to give the function an array of the objects it can intersect. A fast way of doing it would be with `scene.children`, which lets you access all the objects on a scene. However, there are things we might not want to interact with (i.e: the background skydome, a reference plane, walls, etc). With this in mind, we can create a `scene_objects` array where we `push` every object created that can be selected with the raycaster. This gives us more control over our sketch.

```JavaScript
let scene_objects = [];

let obj = new Mesh(obj_geometry, obj_material);
scene.add(obj);
scene_objects.push(obj);
```


## Raycasting
Finally, we can start with the raycasting. The raycaster needs to be set from the camera and normalized mouse positions, and from that we can give it the array of "intersect-able" objects and get the intersected ones.

Now, in order to have a successful interaction, we need a way to tell the user the mouse is on top and can select an object. Possible ways of showing this are changing the color or material, or scaling it to have a magnification effect. Whatever is chosen, we must remember to return the object to the original state if it's not selected. 

```JavaScript
let raycaster = new THREE.Raycaster();

function raycasting(){
	// set raycaster
  raycaster.setFromCamera( mouse, camera );
  // get intersecting elements
  let intersects = raycaster.intersectObjects( scene_objects );
  // return all elements scale
  for (let i = 0; i < scene_objects.length; i++) {
    scene_objects[i].scale.set(1.0, 1.0, 1.0);
  }
  // "highlight" by scaling intersected elements
  for (let i = 0; i < intersects.length; i++) {
    intersects[i].object.scale.set(1.1, 1.1, 1.1);
  }
}
```
